Our project uses elements of Flask, JavaScript, HTML, Jinja, SQL, and CSS to create lunch and dinner menus that update every day. We chose these languages because they allow us to create dynamic functionalities using the data scraped from the HUDS menu.

Similar to the Finance problem set, our website also has the functionality of letting users create accounts, log in, and log out of their accounts. To log in, we use the “request.form.get()” function to call the input the user writes on the login page. From there, we also verify that their username matches the password by using a SELECT query to search our SQL database of users.

In our register page, we use the same format as the login page where we use a form in HTML to get user input, then use multiple checks to make sure the username and passwords are sufficient. Then, generate a hash out of the user’s password to protect the user’s password from getting found by an intruder. Once done, the username and hashed password are sent to the SQL database of users.

A key aspect of this project is how data scraped the HUDS menu using Harvard’s Dining API. From the API’s documentation, we loaded data into a SQL database using a SQLite3 query in Flaskl to get the information we wanted, such as a dish’s name or which location where that dish is served. In our home page (home.html), we used an HTML layout for the taskbar, JavaScript to get the current date, and HTML to embed a YouTube video as a fun background. Then we have two buttons for lunch and dinner using links in HTML and below each button is the average rating for each meal. We made IF statements in Jinja for each average rating just to make sure that the averages were not 0 in case nothing had been rated for the given day. At the bottom of the home page, we provided you a button to be able to load the HUDS data using a combination of HTML and JavaScript. We used JavaScript to be able to use the POST method so that we can download the HUDS dining database in a SQL query in our Flask route function in app.py. The home function in app.py handles both the downloading of the HUDS data and the calculation of the average ratings from a SQL table storing ratings.


The layout.html is very similar to the setup in finance. In the head, there lists the links to the bootstraps and boxicons that allow us to format and add key design elements to our application. Below the head lists that code that designs the navbar at the top of the application and the login and register options at the top of the page along with the HUDSHUB title.

The lunch.html and dinner.html are basically identical besides the titles and where it is taking content from the database. The wrapper creates the menu like design of the website and other formatting options. Then we list all the menu items through <ul> and <li> functions. Underneath the menu, we include a divider and then the star rating function! The one issue that we ran into was preventing the page from automatically scrolling up after clicking on a star rating. I spent many hours trying to figure it out and asked multiple TFs/CAs and they couldn’t find the issue either. We used radio buttons as the star so that when the user submits the form, the selected radio button will be sent as a POST request to the /lunch or /dinner endpoint. Below this is the textarea that also allows users to send additional review information. Theoretically, we could create a separate application that would allow HUDS to see these reviews to make future changes.

If you go to the styles.css, you will find the formatting for many of the amazing functions on our application. The wrapper is formatted to make the nice menu lines around the website. Since there were quite a few buttons involved with our code, we did a lot of formatting for the various buttons. The container was the general formatting and adjusting of our website throughout the code. Then we also included the video background by using some general code we found online. The star rating was the most difficult as we changed the different colors of the stars based on the specific functionality we wanted it to have. (Darker yellow for hovered stars and bright yellow once selected.) We also centered the menu items in ul and got rid of their original bullet point format.

Lastly, our javascript contains the code we tried to use to prevent the star scrolling from happening, the redirecting to home after submitting and the star rating functionality.
